# Chapter 2: Prepare Data

# Certification objectives

## Transform data into usable datasets
- develop data structures
- design a data sampling strategy
- design the data preparation flow

## Perform Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)

- Review visual analytics data to discover patterns and determine next steps
    identify anomalies, outliers, and other data inconsistencies
- Create descriptive statistics for a dataset

## Cleanse and transform data
 
- Resolve anomalies, outliers, and other data inconsistencies.
- Standardize data formats
- Set the granularity for data

# Prepare Data

Data does not usually come in a format ready for running a machine-learninf algorithm,
Why? because algorithms need a big data frame to work, that is, tabular data your algorithm can use.

So, the first task for us is to make data available as a bit table.

If we're lucky that information will be held in a databse, and some data will look like a table without much work.
Probably we can get that table information joining some tables we've got access to.

Azure Machine Learning Studio can process data from:
- Azure Blobs
- Azure Cosmos DB
- Azure SQL Database
- Hive Tables
- On-prem SQL Database.
- HTTP 

In Azure we can prepare data using Azure Machine Learning Studio.

Important: If you use Azure Machine Learning, you *still* can use the datasets and results you have on your **Azure Machine Learning Workspace** from a Jupyter Notebook.

Azure ML Studio provides a Jupyter notebook sample in the notebooks section.
The magic lies on this two lines of code:

```{python}
from azureml import Workspace

ws = Workspace(
    workspace_id='XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX',
    authorization_token='YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY',
    endpoint='https://studioapi.azureml.net')

```
Both the wokspace ID and the authorization token can be found in the "⚙ Configuration" section in the Azure ML Studio sidebar.

With this workspace object, you can access all the stuff you have in your Azure Machine Learning Studio workspace:

```{pyhton}
dir(ws)
['__class__',
 '__delattr__',
 '__dict__',
 '__dir__',
 '__doc__',
 '__eq__',
 '__format__',
 '__ge__',
 '__getattribute__',
 '__gt__',
 '__hash__',
 '__init__',
 '__le__',
 '__lt__',
 '__module__',
 '__ne__',
 '__new__',
 '__reduce__',
 '__reduce_ex__',
 '__repr__',
 '__setattr__',
 '__sizeof__',
 '__str__',
 '__subclasshook__',
 '__weakref__',
 '_rest',
 'api_endpoint',
 'authorization_token',
 'datasets',
 'example_datasets',
 'example_experiments',
 'experiments',
 'management_endpoint',
 'user_datasets',
 'user_experiments',
 'workspace_id']
``` 

- develop data structures
- design a data sampling strategy
- design the data preparation flow

## Data Strategy: Bronze, Silver, Gold areas

A common technique, inherited from the Business Intelligence world, is to use several stages and environments for procesing data.

The fist is the 'staging area', sometimes called 'raw', or 'bronze' area.
In this area we have all data ingested from the original source *without* taken into account field formats.
Usually all data is read as-is in string form, just to be sure that in case we loose the source files, all data is in our database and we cannot loose it easily just removin files.

The second area is the 'Silver' area. In this second area all fields have their correct format.
Somethimes the indexes needed are there, too.

Finally in the 'Gold' area we get both original (processed) data, and data generated by the ML models.
This is the area visualization applications and/or frontends use to read data.

## Data form